## Data science directory

Processed data is available as result.csv

## File Description 
This section will be discussing all csv files: 
- **ptbxl_database.csv** 
- **scp_statements.csv**
- **ptbxl_clean.csv**
- **ultra_cleanptbxl.csv**


###### ptbxl_databse.csv
This csv file contains 21837 clinical 12-lead ECG records of 10 seconds length from 18885 patients. The patients list contains 52% male and 48% female with ages covering the whole range from 0 to 95 years old. The PTB-XL ECG dataset was collected with devices from Schiller AG for about 7 years. It has 28 different columns that can be categorized into:
- Identifiers 
- General Metadata
- ECG statements
- Signal Metadata
- Cross-validation Folds

**ptbxl_databse.csv file has not been cleaned yet !!! **

###### scp_statements.csv
This csv file contains all information that is related to the used annotation scheme that is stored in a dedicated way. It also has the mapping to other annotations such as AHA, aECGREFID, CDISC and DICOM. 

###### ptbxl_clean.csv
In this file, it contains fewer columns than the **_ptbxl_database.csv_** file. We removed some columns that we considered not that useful for our datasets. The 12 columns that we remove are:

- infarction_stadium1
- infarction_stadium2
- nurse
- site
- device
- report
- recording_date
- validated_by
- second_opinion
- initial_autogenerated_report
- validated_by_human
- static_noise

###### ultra_cleanptbxl.csv
After we clean **_ptbxl_clean.csv_** by removing some columns from **_ptbxl_database.csv_**, we will impute some missing values in 2 columns. The columns are **_height_** and **_weight_**. We considered these columns to be important because different aspects can determine a person's heart disease including height and weight.
